In this lesson, we will add an animation for changing weapons and deal with a new type
called AnimNotify. The change animation will also be an AnimMonrage.
We will store it in the weapon component. Add a new property that
will store a pointer to the weapon change animation. Let's name the variable EquipAnimMontage.
Additionally, let's create another function that will play the AnimMontage, let's call it PlayAnimMontage.
And as a parameter there will be a pointer to the animation. We will also have an animation of reloading
weapons a little later, so it is more convenient to immediately select a separate method for playing the animation.
We create the body of this function at the very bottom of the class. We have already used AnimMontage
to play the animation of the death of a character. Character has a special function for this,
so we copy the code for getting character through owner and call the ACharacter class function PlayAnimMontage.
We pass our Animation parameter to it. It is not necessary for us to check the pointer to nullptr,
because if we go to the PlayAnimMontage function, we will see that this check
already exists here . Let's call this function inside the EquipWeapon function, that is, when we change
weapons, the animation of changing weapons should be played. Let's check how it all works.
Our shooter game assets have a special animation called Equip.
Let's create an AnimMontage based on it. Right-click. Choose create -> create AnimMontage.
We call it AM_Equip. Save and transfer to our animation folder.
Open up the character's blueprint. Go to the weapon component and set AM_Equip to our property. We launch the project.
Click on tab, on the mouse wheel. The weapon swap animation plays. We have a number of problems.
If we quickly switch between weapons, then PlayAnimation is constantly called.
We can also shoot at this moment, that is, nothing is blocked for us - full out of sync.
We can block shooting at the start of the animation, block the change of weapons, but we need to have a
mechanism for determining when the animation ends in order to unlock everything back.
Animation has such a mechanism. It's called "Notify". If we open any animation asset,
then in the lower panel of the animation editor we will see a timeline with you where the animation frames are played.
And on the left, there is a category called Notifies. In the tracks, we can place
events with you that are tied to specific animation frames. There is also a Track button
in the Notifies category . We can add additional tracks with you. This is done for the convenience of
grouping events. We will see how it looks in C ++ soon.
Right-click on any track. Select Add Notify -> New Notify and enter an arbitrary name in the window.
Let's call our test event EquipFinished and place it at the very end of the timeline.
At the bottom, you can press pause so that the animation does not flicker.
Let's take a look at the animation. You can move the slider. The actual weapon change takes place somewhere in the second frame of the animation.
The logic of changing weapons can be further complicated by adding an additional Notify, calling it WeaponChange
and changing weapons immediately when this event occurs. We will not do this.
For anyone interested, after this lesson, you can try to do it yourself.
Let's go to the animation blueprint on EventGraph, that to subscribe to Notify,
just select it in the "Add AnimNotify Event" category, or find it by name through the search.
Let's check how it works and print a message when the EquipFinished event occurs.
Compile. We start the game. We got two messages, because there are two characters
on the stage , we press tab and when the animation comes to an end, a message is printed on the screen.
So, we figured out what AnimNotify is. Let's create our own in C ++
and program the logic in the weapon component. Click show all classes. In the search, enter AnimNotify.
We will inherit from this base class. Let's call our class STUEquipFinishedAnimNotify.
Let's create a new folder where we will put this class. Let's call it Animations.
Click create class.
Don't forget to add a new Animations folder to the build file.
We open the created class and immediately go to the base class UAnimNotify. Press f12.
Unfortunately, the UAnimNotify class does not have any C ++ event or delegate to which we
could subscribe and find out when a given AnimNotify has occurred, but there is a virtual function that
is called when AnimNotify fires. The functions are called Notify.
We can override it in our concrete class and add a call to our own delegate in it.
Copy the function. Create a public section and insert the notify function.
Add the signature of the new delegate above the class. We call it FOnNotifiedSignature.
And we create a delegate in the class. Let's call it OnNotified. In fact, we will use a pattern known
in object-oriented programming as a decorator, that is, we add additional
logic to an existing function. Therefore, we call the parent function through Super.
Also, do not forget to pass all the arguments to it. And we add a call to our delegate on top. We use the Broadcast function.
Go to the weapon component header file. Our next task is to access
our AnimNotify and subscribe to the delegate we created. Let's create two additional
functions. The first one is called InitAnimations. In it we will find our AnimNotify and subscribe to it.
And the second function is the callback itself, which we must bind to the OnNotified delegate.
Let's call it OnEquipFinished. We create a body for each function.
We will also include the header file of our AnimNotify.
Let's create a log category for the weapon component. We copy the macro for the log of
any place where we already have it. We name the category LogWeaponComponent.
And in the OnEquipFinished function, we will output to the log that we have finished changing weapons.
First, let's add a call to the InitAnimations function in the BeginPlay function.
It will be called once when character spawns. Go to the body of the function. We have a pointer
to the animation montage. AnimNotify can be accessed using a custom property
that almost all animation assets have. Property is called Notifies.
Let's access this property using our animation montage. Find Notifies.
Press F12. We find ourselves in the UAnimSequenceBase class. This is one of the base animation classes.
The very first property we see is called Notifies. It is an array of FAnimNotifyEvent objects.
Let's hit f12 on this type. This is a structure that stores additional information
about the animation event and a pointer to the UAnimNotify object, which we
directly need. We return to the component. Create a local
variable called NotifyEvents and assign it the value of the Notifies array.
Let's immediately add a check that EquipMantage is a non-null pointer.
We have an array of animation events, let's go through it
and find the AnimNotify we're interested in. We use a for loop over all the elements of the array.
The pointer we are interested in is in the Notify field.
We create a local pointer, which we call EquipFinishedNotify and, to find out
if this Notify is our EquipFinishedAnimNotify, we will try to convert it to our type.
For this we use Cast. We copy the name of the type of our Notify and substitute it into the template.
That is, if the type conversion was successful, then this is the Notify we need.
Checking the pointer.
If the pointer is non-null, then we can get our OnNotified delegate
and bind our OnEquipFinished function.
After that, we can immediately make a break, that is, we leave the loop completely, although, purely theoretically,
you can add several animated Notify of the same type, but in the case of changing weapons,
this does not make sense and it turns out that someone just messed up in blueprints. One more thing - if we
go to UAnimSequenceBase, we will see that this class also has a property AnimNotifyTracks.
This is what we saw in editor. Tracks that can be added to the timeline. But this property
is under the WITH_EDITORONLY_DATA macro. It can only be accessed during development.
When building the game binaries, you will have a compilation error, because in the assembled project we do not access either the editor or its data,
so this macro is set to 0.
Let's install the Notify we created. Open the AM_Equip asset.
And set it to the very, very end of our animation. Right-click on the track. AddNotify.
And at the bottom of the list, we see our Notify, created in C ++.
You can also change the color in the details panel.
We save the asset.
We launch the game and as many as 4 EquipFinished messages have been logged. If we clear the log
and hit tab once.
Then two events came. Let's figure out why this is happening and correct it.
Our property EquipAnimMontage is a pointer to the animation asset and both of our characters
on the stage subscribe to the event from this montage, that is, roughly speaking: WE change the weapon,
the animation starts playing, and when it reached our Notify, the notification came to all characters.
In our case, there are two of them. The Notify function that we've overridden has two parameters,
one of which is USkeletalMeshComponent. We can change our delegate a bit and add
a pointer to SkeletalMesh as a parameter. According to this pointer, we can filter AnimNotify, and if the
animation is played not for our skeleton, then we will not process this AnimNotify.
In the weapon component, we will also change the signature of the OnEquipFinished function. Add a pointer to USkeletalMeshComponent.
We also add to the .cpp file.
Through the GetOwner pointer, we can get a pointer to the SkeletalMeshComponent of the character
and check if it matches the SkeletalMeshComponent that came in the parameter.
And if they match, we will display the message "Equip finished".
We launch the project.
Only 2 messages were printed, not 4 like last time, that is, each character filtered the AnimNotify that he did not need.
And if we press tab, then the message is displayed only once. That's all in this lesson.
The main logic is ready. In the next lesson, we will finish blocking all actions until our animation is complete.